I like difficult to tough issues, I like dealing with them. 
See, if you look at the speech I gave at AICC a few days back. 
The issue is basically how the Prime Minister in this country is chosen. 
The way the Prime Minister is chosen in this country is through the MPs. 
Our system chooses MPs & MPs elect Prime Minister. 
I said pretty clearly in my speech in AICC, that if the Congress party so chooses & Congress party wants me to do anything for them, I am happy to do that. 
It's respect for the process. 
In fact announcing your PM prior to an election, announcing your PM without asking the members of Parliament, is not actually written in the constitution. 
What we did in 2009 was that we had an incumbent Prime Minister. 
Prime Minister won the election, he then went to Parliament. 
The members of Parliament decided that, that Prime Minister will continue, and there was actually a process where he was asked. 
We had an incumbent Prime Minister and there was no question of our changing him. 
That is up to them right, but what one has to do and this is central to what I keep saying is that democracy is about respect of processes. 
Democracy is about non-arbitrary decisions. 
Democracy is about spreading decisions; it is not about destroying processes. 
There is a process in the constitution and that process says, and it is clearly written in the constitution, and it says members of parliament are to be elected by the population and members of parliament are to elect the Prime Minister. 
All I am doing is respecting that process. 
To understand that question you have to understand a little bit about who Rahul Gandhi is and what Rahul Gandhi's circumstances have been and if you delve into that you will get an answer to the question of what Rahul Gandhi is scared off and what he is not scared off. 
The real question is what I am doing sitting here, you are a journalist, when you were small you must have said to yourself I want to do something, you decided to become a journalist at some point, why did you do that? 
I am going to answer the question but I just want to ask you, when you were young and thought of being a journalist what drove you? 
You are not answering my question, but I will answer the question and that will give you some insight into how Rahul Gandhi thinks. 
For that I will have to expand a little bit about my growing up, how I grew up and the circumstances in which I grew up. 
What I saw when I was a child ,was my father, who was a pilot, and because of circumstances was thrown into the political system and all I saw when was small after my grandmother died was my father in constant-constant combat with the system in India and then I saw him die actually. 
  In my life I have seen my grandmother die, I have seen my father die, I have seen my grandmother go to jail and I have actually been through a tremendous amount of pain as a child when these things happen to you, what I had to scared  off I lost, there is absolutely nothing I am scared off. 
I have an aim, I have a clear aim in my mind and the aim is that I do not like what I see in Indian politics, it is something that is inside my heart. 
It is like in our mythology when they talk about Arjun, he only sees one thing, he does not see anything else, you asked me about Mr. 
Modi you ask me about anything and the thing that I see is that the system in this country needs to change, I don't see anything else and I am blind to everything else. 
I am blind because I saw people I love destroyed by the system. 
  I am blind because the system everyday is unfair to our people, I ask you today, you come from Assam and I am sure that you also in your work feel the unfairness of the system. 
The system everyday-everyday hurts people and I have felt the pain that the system can cause. 
I felt the pain with my father, I saw him every single day of his life, so the question of whether I am afraid of losing an election or whether I am afraid of Mr. 
Modi is not actually the point. 
I am here basically for one thing, I see tremendous energy in this country, I see more energy in this country than any other country, I see billions of youngsters and I see this energy is trapped... 
What Rahul Gandhi wants to do, is Rahul Gandhi and millions of youngsters in this country want to change the way the system in this country works. 
What Rahul Gandhi wants to do is empower the women in this country, wants to unleash the power of these women, I mean we talk about being a superpower... 
No I am not avoiding the question I think we will defeat the BJP in the next elections The BJP has prime ministerial candidate, the BJP believes in concentration of power in the hands of one person, I fundamentally disagree with that, I believe in democracy, I believe in opening up the system. 
I believe in the RTI, I believe in giving power to our people. 
We have fundamentally different philosophies Well, I mean what the Prime Minister is saying is a fact, Gujarat happened, people died but the real issue as far I am concerned... 
Gujarat happened, people died. 
The real issue at hand here is... 
He was CM when Gujarat happened The congress party and the BJP have two completely different philosophies, our attack on the BJP is based on the idea that this country needs to move forward democratically, it needs push democracy deeper into the country, it needs to push democracy into the villagers, it needs to give women democratic powers, it needs to give youngsters democratic powers. 
It is about opening the doors of the congress party, about empowering the youth Our political party is fighting an ideological battle Against the BJP and let me draw out the two pillars- our party believes that women should be empowered, democracy should go to every house, that RTI, and the MNREGA paradigm should be further expanded. 
The BJP believes power should be extremely concentrated in this country, few people should run this country and the large mass of this country should have no voice. 
The strategy of the party is very simple. 
Everything we have done over that last 5-10years, in fact if you look all the way back to the freedom movement, every single thing we have ever done is empower people. 
We empowered people in the freedom movement, we empowered farmers in the Green revolution, and we empowered the citizens of India when we did the telecom revolution. 
We have empowered millions and millions of people through frankly the most powerful legislation that has ever taken place in this country called the RTI- Right to information. 
Things that used to be closed, things that were in closed doors which nobody knew about The PM has stated his position on the Gujarat riots. 
The Gujarat riots took place, people died, Mr. 
Narendra Modi was in charge of Gujarat at that point. 
I am bringing you to a real ideological battle that is taking place here. 
The real ideological battle that is taking place here and the one we are going to win and that has always been one in this country is the battle of empowering people in this country. 
Of course there is your point of the Gujarat riots and it is very important that people who have taken part in this kind of thing are brought to book. 
But the real issue at hand here is empowering the women of this country, giving them true power. 
We talk about India being a superpower we can only be half a superpower if our women are not empowered. 
What I want to do is going forward is basically focus on three things. 
Focus on empowering our people, truly empowering our people, giving them democratic rights within the political party. 
I want youngsters who come in and really, really push democracy in the party. 
I want to empower them and I want to make India, together with everybody, taking everybody together I want to put India on the manufacturing map, I want to make this the centre of manufacturing in the world. 
I want to make this place at least as much as a manufacturing power as China. 
Two things, in 1977 when my Grandmother lost the election we went and lived ....and the people who came with my Grandmother, those people who stood by my Grandmother were Sikhs. 
Pretty much everyone had deserted my Grandmother but the Sikhs were standing with my Grandmother. 
I think the Sikhs are probably one of the industrious people in this country. 
I admire them; we have a PM who is a Sikh. 
I don't have the same world view as my opposition. 
What those two people did to my Grandmother, was two individuals, I don't turn around and take my anger which existed then, frankly, it doesn't exist now and brush it onto an entire community, that's just not me. 
I am coming to your question I do not take my anger which existed on 2 individuals who did something evil and wrong and overlay it on millions of people. 
I think that's criminal. 
Did the Sikh riots take place in Delhi? 
Absolutely. 
Were they completely wrong? 
Absolutely. 
Did innocent people die? 
Absolutely Some Congress men were probably involved There is a legal process through which they have gone through Some congressmen have been punished for it he fact of the matter is that innocent people died in 1984 and innocent people dying is a horrible thing and should not happen. 
The difference between Gujarat and 1984 was that the Government of Gujarat was involved in the riots I mean.... 
The difference between the 84 riots and the riots in Gujarat was that in 1984 the Government was trying to stop the riots. 
I remember, I was a child then, I remember the Government was doing everything it could to stop the riots. 
In Gujarat the opposite was the case. 
The Government in Gujarat was actually abetting and pushing the riots further. 
So there is a huge difference between the two things, saying that innocent people dying is absolutely wrong I mean it's not me...it's the large number of people who were there, large number of people who saw actively the Government of Gujarat being involved in the riots. 
I mean, people saw it. 
I am not the person who saw it, your colleague saw it. 
Your colleagues told me They saw the administration actively attacking minorities  I am saying that there was difference between the 1984 riots and the riots in Gujarat. 
The difference was that the Government in 1984 was trying to stop the riots, trying to stop the killing whereas the Government in Gujarat was allowing the riots to happen. 
 There is a process. 
See there is a legal process. 
And that process is on. 
Okay. 
 Look. 
All I'm saying, all I'm saying is that there is a difference between the 1984 riots and the Gujarat riots. 
The simple difference is that in 1984 the government was not involved in the massacre of people. 
In Gujarat it was. 
The question is why do these kind of things take place. 
Why is it that the Gujarat riots took place? 
The Gujarat riots took place frankly because of the way our system is structured, because of the fact that people do not have a voice in the system. 
And what I want to do. 
And I have said it and I will say it again. 
What I want to do is question the fundamentals over here. 
What I want to do is ask a couple of questions. 
I want to ask why candidates that are chosen in every single party are chosen by a tiny number of people. 
I want to ask why women have to be scared to go out on the street. 
I want to ask these questions. 
These are fundamental questions. 
 All I'm saying is there is a difference between the 1984 riots and the Gujarat riots. 
The difference is that the government of the day in 1984 was not aiding and abetting the riots. 
That is all I'm saying. 
 First of all I wasn't involved in the riots at all. 
It wasn't that I was part of it. 
  I think that riots, as all riots, were a horrible event. 
Frankly I was not in operation in the Congress party. 
   I think that political parties should be under RTI if political parties feel, and it's a law that has to be passed in parliament. 
If political parties unanimously feel that that should be the case then it should be the case. 
   My position is that the more openness the better. 
   See the issue is this. 
Laws in this country are passed by parliament. 
What one needs to do is pass a law in parliament that brings RTI in the political party. 
I have a personal view on it but you have to take that view through parliament. 
I have a view also for example on the six bills that are sitting in parliament. 
   I am the first person who has been saying over the last five years, talking about transparency in the party. 
I have made the Youth Congress and the NSUI fully elected bodies. 
I have spoken about the six bills in parliament. 
I have spoken about the Lokpal Bill and I have pushed the Lokpal Bill. 
I was involved in the RTI. 
We worked together to bring the RTI. 
So as far as transparency in the political party is concerned I am absolutely for transparency. 
There are questions about the RTI that need to be discussed and thought through. 
The real question is that our system is based on different pillars. 
And the question is which ones of these pillars should have RTI. 
Because, if you only put RTI into one pillar and you don't have RTI in for example the judiciary and the press and in other areas then you might create an imbalance. 
 Am I for opening up? 
Am I for bringing RTI into as many places possible? 
Absolutely. 
Am I for creating an imbalance and weakening the legislative structures of this country. 
No I am not. 
    It brings in transparency but it changes the balance of power. 
    Because the judiciary does not come under RTI. 
The press does not  have RTI. 
Other components of the system do not have RTI. 
No it doesn't. 
Okay. 
The Judiciary does not have RTI. 
So you have to have a complete thinking. 
So if you want to bring RTI. 
If you want to deepen RTI, you have to think about it in a composite manner. 
You cannot just say, 'Okay let's put RTI here, put RTI here'. 
You have to have a strategy to put RTI and open the system together. 
And as far as opening the system is concerned. 
Of course I am. 
No I am not opposed to any discussion, ever. 
On all subjects. 
One has to take care that one is not creating imbalances in the system. 
And that's something that one has to discuss. 
No, no, no. 
I have said that I am happy to have a discussion. 
Of course. 
Absolutely. 
But let me just go back and let me give you... 
Let me go further than that. 
The central question in all this is who chooses political candidates and how? 
The central issue in all this is what is the power of the Member of Parliament, the power of the MLA and the power of the Pradhan in political system? 
If you look at the legislative power of a Member of Parliament, you look at the legislative power of an MLA today and you look at the role he plays in Parliament and the role he plays in the assembly. 
He doesn't actually make laws. 
He presses buttons. 
Go to a state like Uttar Pradesh and you look at actually the law making, the law making done by the MLAs, it's extremely limited. 
You can't talk about bringing people into politics. 
You can't talk about opening up the system until you start to empower these people. 
I'm sorry the Congress party wherever we have had issues of corruption we have taken action. 
On every front. 
We are the ones who brought the RTI which is the single biggest weapon against corruption. 
And we got it ourselves. 
We are the ones who delivered RTI to this country. 
 I made my position on Ashok Chavan clear  Ashok Chavan absolutely clear. 
I made it front of a press conference. 
I made it absolutely clear exactly what I thought about that issue. 
Let me again go back to the issue at hand. 
The issue at hand is bringing in youngsters into the political system. 
Opening the doors... 
 What I will say is that in the Congress party anybody who does any act of corruption will be taken up and punished. 
 Every single person. 
 What I will say is that there are six bills in parliament that are sitting there bring them in. 
Pass them. 
  I have made it absolutely crystal clear right in front of the press what I think about this issue. 
  What do you mean nothing happened? 
  Absolutely not. 
What all I'm saying is that anybody, regardless of who he is, if there is any corruption by any Congress person we will take action. 
  We have punished our own minister. 
We have put the most powerful bills in the Parliament house. 
Please get those bills passed. 
That's what I tell the opposition in this country. 
  As far as any corruption done, there is a legal process. 
And that legal process should be followed and concluded. 
As far as my personal view is concerned, anybody who is corrupt should be brought to book. 
  We took action against the DMK ministers. 
  We took action on the corrupt ministers. 
We have passed a bill in parliament. 
The Lokpal Bill. 
The most powerful thing. 
We got you RTI and we got six bills sitting in Parliament house. 
We have to change the way the system works. 
We are always talking about peripheral things. 
We are never talking about the core reason this system is corrupt. 
The core reason the season is corrupt is that there is too much concentration of power in the system and people on the peripheries do not have power. 
The people on the streets do not have power. 
And that the reason that happens is that our political system, political parties are shut. 
We need to open the door of the political parties. 
We need to move, carry out more legislation like RTI and we need to change the system. 
  Anybody who is corrupt should be punished. 
I am not a judge. 
So if there is a legal process and there is a result of the legal process, absolutely they should be punished. 
  Yes I know that but I am saying that it is not my job. 
My job is when I see issues of corruption, take action on it. 
That's what I do. 
  My position was that I report to the Prime Minister. 
Whatever I felt I had conversations with the Prime Minister. 
Whatever I felt about the issues I made it abundantly clear to the Prime Minister. 
I was involved in the legislation, RTI legislation. 
And now I have helped pass the Lokpal Bill. 
I bring you back. 
The real issue here is participation of people in politics. 
It is bringing youngsters into the political system, it's opening out the political system. 
That's where nobody wants to talk. 
Everybody is perfectly happy with 500 people running the entire system in India. 
Nobody, none of you want to raise that issue. 
The fundamental issue. 
How do we chose candidates? 
  What I feel is that this country needs to look at the fundamental issues at hand, the fundamental political issue at hand is that our Political system is controlled by too few people and we absolutely have to change the way our political system is structured, we have to change our Political parties, we have to make them more transparent, we have to change the processes that we use to elect candidates, we have to empower women in the political parties, that is where the meat of the issue but I don't hear that discussion, I don't hear the discussion about how are we actually choosing that candidate, that is never the discussion. 
  Their clout doesn't make them oblivious, but the point here is the system is the system behind them that has no processes no systems and we just assume that thing is going to work. 
What we have to do is we have to open that up. 
We have to  bring youngsters into that and that no-one is discussing. 
My long term view is that we need to take the Indian political system to a different place. 
We need to bring in youngsters and we need to move away from this concentration of power. 
Unfortunately the political system today is at a particular place and I can't simply ignore the fact that the political system is at that place, so certainly there are points at which you might have to take a decision that you are not a 100% happy with but the long term idea for me is to transform the system, to bring in youngsters and make sure they are empowered. 
These decisions of the Congress party are made by senior leaders. 
Our alliance in Bihar is with a political party with an idea not an individual, we are making alliance, and it is not certain that we are going to make an alliance, we are in process of talking to people and our alliance is with an idea, with a party, not an individual We are fighting an election, we are going to win that election, there are our alliance partners, there is our alliance partner in Maharashtra, and there is our alliance partner in Bihar and Jharkhand. 
We are making an alliance with their view not with an individual. 
No, we are making an alliance with a political party. 
No, I think women are the backbone of this country and women need to be empowered and I felt that price rise is an issue cylinders were a big issue, I went to Kerala and I go a sense that women were concerned about that and I made that view clear to everybody in the AICC session. 
I have been working with the PM on the Price rise issue, I have been in discussions with him and we have taken steps in our states, where we have called the Chief Ministers and we have taken steps where we have actually reduced the prices of vegetables in our states, so it is not that I just woke up, it is that I have been working on it systematically. 
But what I really feel that we need to start looking at empowering women, bringing them in and listening to them. 
Prices are a reality... 
 I still have faith in the PM he is our leader... 
 We are working on prices, as I said we have spoken to our Chief Ministers and we have reduced prices in states where we are in power. 
 The work that I have done in the Congress party, the work that I have done in the youth Congress and the work that I am going to do in the future is about bringing in youngsters into the party, strengthening processes, strengthening candidate selection process and strengthening policy processes. 
I made a comment about the AAP where I said that there is something that we can learn from them and what I felt that we could learn from them is that they reached out to people in a particular way that was good, there are things that I don't think we should take away from them. 
I think we have fundamental strengths in the Congress party and it is something that we have been working on for 3-4 years now and the real power of the Congress party is the depth of the organization and you can't makes changes by destroying things. 
 I think that as far as I am concerned that the AAP won an election in Delhi and we thought that we would assist them  We thought we would assist them, because our party felt we should give them a chance to prove themselves and one can see what they are doing and one can see exactly how much they have proved themselves. 
 He is a leader of an opposition party like many others, what we have to do as the Congress party and again in front of us is an election, what we have to do is 3 things. 
One is we have to transform ourselves, we have bring in youngsters, we have to give them space. 
Two is we have to look at manufacturing, we have already set up the corridors North, South, East & West, how we can take the energy of the Indian people and build a manufacturing superhouse... 
That is what I think the real issues are. 
 You are implying that we have brought the AAP... 
  I think you underestimate the power of the Congress party, I don't think the Congress party could even do that if they wanted to. 
The Congress party is an extremely powerful system and all the Congress party needs to do is bring in younger fresher faces in the election which is what we are going to do and we are going to win the election. 
  Yeah, I will win the election   Reasonably confident    If we don't win, I am the VP of the party of course I will take responsibility for it.. 
   I have already said that regardless of who the person is, if there is an issue of corruption the law should take its own course, that's my position. 
    I would say when we win an election, when we won Uttarakhand, Himachal and when we won Karnataka , I am not involved, when we lose an election I am the cause of it. 
But once again I think what the Congress Party need to do is tap its potential, what the Congress party needs to do is change the way the its organisation is structured and look at changing the way politics in this country is structured, that is where I think we should head. 
 Questions about whether we have supported AAP or not supported AAP, frankly it is a ridiculous notion. 
It is ridiculous that we would construct the AAP... 
    That ascribes huge power to the Congress party, I think the Congress party's strength comes when we open up when we bring in new people, that is historically been the case and that is what I want to do. 
     I don't actually keep invoking my family name, I have mentioned my family name once or twice and then people report that. 
The real issue is that I didn't choose to be born in this family, I didn't sign up and say that I like to be born in this family it happened, so the choice in front of me is pretty simple I can either turn around and say okay I will just walk away from this thing and leave it alone or I can say I can try and improve something. 
Pretty much every single thing I have done in my political career has been to bring in youngsters , has been to open up, has been to democratise. 
I am absolutely against the concept of Dynasty, anybody who knows me knows that and understands that. 
But you are not going to wish away Dynasty in a closed system, you have to open the system. 
Dynasty or children of politicians becoming powerful happens in the BJP, it happens in the DMK, it happens in the SP, it happens in the Congress party, it happens everywhere. 
     You have to go into why it is happening. 
     The reason children of politicians keep getting repositioned is because the system is closed. 
You are not going to change that without opening the system, you are not going to open the system without having processes, the system is not going to open by waving a wand and saying Abracadabra let us open the system. 
It is going to take time, it is going to take effort and it is going to take structure. 
That is the work that I do. 
That is the work I spent a whole bunch of my time doing that is the revolutionary work I have done in the IYC and the NSUI that is the work we are doing when we talk of an open manifesto. 
That is the work we are doing when we talk of 15 parliamentary seats being chosen. 
Absolutely, because one needs to set up the systems, if I was to suddenly launch into 543 seats directly elected by our people the system would explode. 
What I need to do is I need to set up an idea, test the idea, run the idea, if it makes sense, if it works then move it to the rest of the party. 
The step we have taken with those 15 primaries, we get that much of a little piece in the newspaper, but that is probably the biggest political step taken in this country. 
It is a huge-huge step and I think those are the types of questions one needs to ask, one doesn't ask them, one asks questions that don't actually reach to the heart of the issue. 
You are talking about India, we have had a 1 hour conversation here, you haven't asked me 1 question about how we are going to build this country, how we are going to take this country forward, you haven't asked me one question on how we are going to empower our people, you haven't asked me one question on what we are going to do for youngsters, you are not interested in that. 
Were you in Cambridge But you spent some time at Cambridge? 
So where were you at Cambridge? 
So I was at Trinity in Cambridge, I spent a year there, I did my M.Phil there. 
You want me to show you my degree, I can show you my degree He has probably seen my degree, I have given a sworn affidavit saying I that I have got these degrees, If I am lying on these affidavits let him take the legal process and solve it , what more do you want me to do. 
Why should I challenge him? 
He's been attacking my family for 40 years. 
Why should I challenge him? 
I respond by understanding why I'm being attacked. 
I'm being attacked because I'm doing things that are dangerous to the system. 
I'm being attacked because I'm asking questions that are dangerous to the system. 
And I'm not asking superficial questions. 
I'm not asking questions over here (pointing at the ceiling). 
I'm asking questions over there (pointing to the ground). 
And everybody understands that this fellow here is not just a superficial chap who talks. 
This fellow over here is thinking deeply and is thinking long term. 
That's why I'm attacked. 
I understand that. 
And frankly, attack me all you want. 
Beat me to death. 
It's not going to stop me. 
I'm going to keep doing it. 
And I'm going to ask the questions that are relevant. 
And you know what, I have thousand people in the Congress party, two thousand people in the party who are working on this stuff. 
They're not letting go. 
And I'm proud of them, they're not letting go. 
It doesn't matter. 
Keep throwing stones at us. 
That's the point. 
The point is, people who are attacked in this system, the people who are actually attacked, are the ones fighting the system. 
You understand that? 
They're not the people who sit and ask, the superficial questions. 
They're the ones who're actually saying, let's do something about this system. 
They're the ones who are going deep into the system and understanding that this is the crux of it. 
And the crux of it, Arnab I've told you. 
The crux of it is how we choose candidates. 
The crux of it is how we make policies. 
That's the crux of it. 
The thing is, you don't like discussing it. 
You like discussing stuff that really, doesn't go to the core and I'm a serious politician. 
I'm not somebody who's here to get power, or make money or something. 
I'm somebody who's here, who's seen what  the system does to people. 
I've seen, and I can give you example after example which is on my mind. 
But I'm not going to fight the superficial battle. 
I just am not. 
It's not interesting to me. 
I'm going to fight a battle. 
I'm going to fight a deep battle. 
I'm going to take the youngsters of this country and line them up. 
And I'm going to then take the system on. 
Don't forget that. 
If I don't have a thick skin right now, it'll get thick  It all depends on what you're trying to do. 
I told you that I'm here because I want to help use the energy of this country. 
I want to make this country powerful. 
I want to project the ideas of this country. 
To do that, I think there are basically 3 things one needs to do. 
One, is changing the way we do politics here. 
Getting away from the superficialities, getting away from the small issues and moving deeper into the issues right. 
Questioning the system, changing the system. 
Things like RTI, things like Lokpal, things like how we choose our candidates. 
Things like bringing youngsters into politics. 
Second is empowering the women of this country. 
Really bringing them into the system. 
Really pushing them forward. 
And third is using the energy of the youth of this country. 
Bringing in the type of jobs that they need. 
This stuff is not done in 5 minutes. 
This stuff is frankly not done in this type of discussions. 
This stuff is done through concentrated thinking and long term work. 
It's frankly difficult work, it's painful work. 
If we're thinking about that and thinking that's what we want to do, defeat just makes you stronger, it makes you want to do more. 
I don't go into an election thinking, if we lose it's the end of the world. 
We lose some elections, we win some elections. 
The real thing is that it's a heart thing. 
It's a soul thing. 
Why are you here? 
I asked you that question, why am I sitting here? 
I'm sitting here because I feel with all my heart that we need to change the system here and not enough people are actually asking that question. 
  If you look at my spirit, regardless of what I do, if I'd been born in India, regardless of what I do, I don't like unfairness. 
It just makes my blood boil. 
I don't like it. 
And in whatever I did, if I saw unfairness, I would stand up Against it. 
That's the heart of my politics. 
  Maybe you find me strange because... 
  You sort of implied that, but maybe I look like an anomaly in the environment that I'm in. 
Maybe that's what you're saying and frankly in a lot of ways, I am an anomaly in the environment that I'm in. 
The power is poison remark, and I tell this to my sister, I tell it to my mother and my mother tells it to me. 
I don't get driven by the desire for power. 
I'm just not driven by it. 
For me power is an instrument that can be used for certain things. 
But for me, it's not interesting to own it, to capture it or to hold it. 
 Maybe its because of my family circumstances and what happened to my family. 
Power per se, the quest for power, the thirst for power is not there is me. 
What is there in me, is a desire, a strong desire to reduce the pain that people feel. 
To reduce the pain that people feel as a result of the system that is predatory. 
As a result of the system that need not be there. 
As a result of system that can change if we just start to ask the deeper question. 
And we stop asking the superficial questions. 
Again, and maybe the seventh time I want to repeat it to you. 
What are those deeper questions? 
The deeper question is, why is power so concentrated in this country? 
Why is it that the Chief Minister of a state has the access to any decision in the entire state? 
Why is it that candidates are chosen in closed rooms? 
Why is it that people do not have access to the candidates' decision? 
Why is it that our policies are made behind closed doors by 5 or 6 people? 
Why is it that the perspective of one minister is completely different from the one who is following him? 
What that's telling me is that we're not exactly taking the voice of the people into policy. 
We're not actually taking the voice of the people into the political system. 
You said about the Aam Aadmi Party and you said, 'you criticised them and you praised them'. 
I liked what I saw as far as the representation, bringing in people, I thought that was an interesting concept. 
We've done that kind of stuff in the Youth Congress. 
That was interesting to me. 
  What I liked about what I saw in the Aam Aadmi Party was people coming into their system. 
I liked that. 
But what's different between us & them is that we have structure. 
We develop processes. 
That I didn't see much of. 
   It's not specifics. 
It's frankly superficialities     It's completely superficial     No it's not. 
Whether Mr. 
Shinde should've apologised, whether he should've done this or done that is, it's a fact and it happened. 
But the real core issues in this election are, 1)Are we going to head towards a democracy, towards deepening our democracy and towards opening up the system or are we going to head towards concentration of power? 
2) Are we going to head towards empowerment of women? 
Are we going to be a half strong nation? 
Be a half proud nation? 
Or are we going to actually empower women? 
Those are the questions. 
And you know,  if you listen to the debate that's going on, about the elections, that's not the debate. 
There's nothing in the debate about how we're going to move forward on the RTI paradigm. 
How we're going to move forward on the corruption paradigm. 
There's nothing in the debate about funding of political parties. 
There's nothing in the debate about how we're going to choose political candidates. 
There's nothing in the debate about how policies must be made. 
These are the fundamental things. 
These are the things that actually make an impact. 
     I'm debating these issues by building structures in the Congress party that's going to transform it. 
     You're more than welcome. 
You have to start that debate. 
As far as I'm concerned, the debate is taking place. 
     You start the debate. 
But the real issue is doing this stuff. 
The real issue is doing this stuff in the party machine. 
The only people who are doing that, is us. 
And frankly, we can stick for it. 
We've just said that 15 constituencies in this country in the Congress party are going to be chosen by primaries. 
No one said a word about it. 
     But the discussion hasn't gone there. 
So all I'm saying is, as youngsters and as serious politicians, one has to ask the fundamental questions. 
The fundamental question this election is, are we going to open up the system? 
Are we going to close the system? 
What is going to be the role of women going forward? 
How are we going to get jobs for youngsters in this country? 
You asked me a whole bunch of questions. 
You didn't ask me once on how we're going to get jobs for youngsters in this country. 
You didn't ask me once about what we're going to do for the women for this country. 
And I'm going to tell you what I think. 
     You're more than welcome to ask these questions. 
But let's also move the debate to a place where we're actually reaching towards fundamentals. 
What should be the role of women in this country? 
How can we enhance their role? 
How do we bring jobs to millions of people. 
For example, every single person who comes to me from abroad, Japan, France, Germany, America and tell me 'Listen, we need an alternative to Chinese manufacture'. 
We're very happy with what the Chinese give us, but we need another port. 
There's global energy saying we want to move manufacturing to India. 
The Congress party, the UPA Govt have built the corridors, we've built the North-South, East-West corridor. 
We built 3 times the roads the NDA built. 
Why are we not having a discussion on those topics? 
      Actually, the RTI right, has basically changed the game in India. 
What it has done, is that it has basically opened up the structures. 
And what used to be hidden, can no longer be hidden. 
That's the bottom line. 
The bottom line is large number of corruption issues that were hidden, that nobody would have found out about, came out because of the RTI. 
We did that. 
Now please go to our Opposition states, please go to their states and ask them if they have RTI Commissioners. 
The issue here is very simple. 
The issue is do you want an open system? 
Do you want a system where these things are out in the open? 
Or do you want a closed system where these things are hidden? 
The debate is taking place right now There is a national debate taking place right now. 
The national debate taking place right now is the following. 
There is the Congress Party that believes in openness, that believes in RTI, that believes in Panchayati Raj, that believes in giving people power. 
And there is our Opposition that believes in concentrated power. 
That's the debate that's taking place. 
That's what the election is all about. 
We fundamentally believe and the Congress Party has always believed that this country has to be ruled by its people. 
This country has always been run & successfully when large numbers of people were involved in the decision making. 
Historically, when you look at when this country has done well, it has done well when we have involved people. 
My response to that is that in the last 10 years, we gave the country the fastest economic growth its ever had. 
My response is that, we did more for opening up the system than any Govt before us. 
My response is that we have completely changed the paradigm with our rights based development model. 
We have given MGNREGA which has transformed the rural economy. 
We are talking about AADHAR which is going to give money directly to the people. 
To just brush aside the idea that Congress party has been in power for 60 years, we are growing at the rate at which we are growing because of the Congress party. 
 